.\" -*-nroff-*-
.\"
.\" msmtp version 1.4.17
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008  Martin Lambers
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.TH MSMTP 1 2008-07
.SH NAME
msmtp \- An SMTP client 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP "Sendmail mode (default):"
.B msmtp
[option...] [--] recipient...
.br
.B msmtp
[option...] -t [--] [recipient...]
.IP "Server information mode:"
.B msmtp
[option...] --serverinfo
.IP "Remote Message Queue Starting mode:"
.B msmtp
[option...] --rmqs=\fIhost\fP|\fI@domain\fP|\fI#queue\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
In the default sendmail mode, msmtp reads a mail from standard input and sends
it to an SMTP server for delivery.
.br
In server information mode, msmtp prints information about an SMTP server.
.br
In Remote Message Queue Starting mode, msmtp sends a Remote Message Queue
Starting request for a host, domain, or queue to an SMTP server.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The standard sendmail exit status codes are used, as defined in sysexits.h.
.SH OPTIONS
Options override configuration file settings.
.br
They are compatible with sendmail where appropriate.
.IP "\fBGeneral options\fP"
.RS
.IP "--version"
Print version information. This includes information about the library used for
TLS/SSL support (if any), the library used for authentication, the
authentication mechanisms supported by this library, and the default locations
of the system and user configuration files.
.IP "--help"
Print help.
.IP "-P, --pretend"
Print the configuration settings that would be used, but do not take further
action.  An asterisk ('*') will be printed instead of your password.
.IP "-d, --debug"
Print lots of debugging information, including the whole conversation with the
SMTP server. Be careful with this option: the (potentially dangerous) output
will not be sanitized, and your password may get printed in an easily decodable
format!
.RE
.IP "\fBChanging the mode of operation\fP"
.RS
.IP "-S, --serverinfo"
Print information about the SMTP server and exit. This includes information
about supported features (mail size limit, authentication, TLS, DSN, ...) and
about the TLS certificate (if TLS is active).
.IP "--rmqs=(\fIhost\fP|\fI@domain\fP|\fI#queue\fP)"
Send a Remote Message Queue Starting request for the given host, domain, or
queue to the SMTP server and exit.
.RE
.IP "\fBConfiguration options\fP"
.RS
.IP "-C, --file=\fIfilename\fP"
Use the given file instead of ~/.msmtprc as the user configuration file.
.IP "-a, --account=\fIaccount_name\fP"
Use the given account instead of the account named "default". The settings of
this account may be changed with command line options. This option cannot be
used together with the \fB--host\fP option.
.IP "--host=\fIhostname\fP"
Use this SMTP server with settings from the command line; do not use any
configuration file data. This option cannot be used together with the
\fB--account\fP option.
.IP "--port=\fInumber\fP"
Set the port number to connect to. See the \fBport\fP command below.
.IP "--timeout=(\fIoff\fP|\fIseconds\fP)"
Set a network timeout. See the \fBtimeout\fP command below. For compatibility 
with older versions, --connect-timeout is accepted as an alias for this option.
.IP "--protocol=(\fIsmtp\fP|\fIlmtp\fP)
Set the protocol to use. See the \fBprotocol\fP command below.
.IP "--auth[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP|\fImethod\fP)]"
Enable or disable authentication. You can optionally choose the method. See
the \fBauth\fP command below.
.IP "--user=\fI[username]\fP"
Set or unset the user name for authentication. See the \fBuser\fP command
below.
.IP "--tls[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Enable or disable TLS/SSL encryption. See the \fBtls\fP command below.
.IP "--tls-starttls[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Enable or disable STARTTLS for TLS encryption. See the \fBtls_starttls\fP
command below.
.IP "--tls-trust-file=[\fIfile\fP]"
Set or unset a trust file for TLS encryption. See the \fBtls_trust_file\fP
command below.
.IP "--tls-crl-file=[\fIfile\fP]"
Set or unset a certificate revocation list (CRL) file for TLS. See the
\fBtls_crl_file\fP command below.
.IP "--tls-key-file=[\fIfile\fP]"
Set or unset a key file for TLS encryption. See the \fBtls_key_file\fP command
below.
.IP "--tls-cert-file=[\fIfile\fP]"
Set or unset a cert file for TLS encryption. See the \fBtls_cert_file\fP
command below.
.IP "--tls-certcheck[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Enable or disable server certificate checks for TLS encryption. See the
\fBtls_certcheck\fP command below.
.IP "--tls-force-sslv3[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Force TLS/SSL version SSLv3. See the \fBtls_force_sslv3\fP command below.
.IP "--tls-min-dh-prime-bits=[\fIbits\fP]"
Set or unset minimum bit size of the Diffie-Hellman (DH) prime. See the
\fBtls_min_dh_prime_bits\fP command below.
.IP "--tls-priorities=[\fIpriorities\fP]"
Set or unset TLS priorities. See the \fBtls_priorities\fP command below.
.IP "--domain=[\fIstring\fP]"
Set the argument of the SMTP EHLO (or LMTP LHLO) command. See the \fBdomain\fP
command below.
.RE
.IP "\fBOptions specific to sendmail mode\fP"
.RS
.IP "--auto-from[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Enable or disable automatic envelope-from addresses. The default is off. 
See the \fBauto_from\fP command below.
.IP "-f, --from=\fIaddress\fI"
Set the envelope-from address. It is only used when \fIauto_from\fP is off.
.br
If no account was chosen yet (with \fB--account\fP or \fB--host\fP), this 
option will choose the first account that has the given envelope-from address
(set with the \fBfrom\fP command). If no such account is found, "default" is 
used.
.IP "--maildomain=[\fIdomain\fP]"
Set the domain part for generated envelope-from addresses. It is only used when
\fIauto_from\fP is on. See the \fBmaildomain\fP command below.
.IP "-N, --dsn-notify=(\fIoff\fP|\fIcond\fP)"
Set or unset DSN notification conditions. See the \fBdsn_notify\fP command
below.
.IP "-R, --dsn-return=(\fIoff\fP|\fIret\fP)"
Set or unset the DSN notification amount. See the \fBdsn_return\fP command
below.
Note that \fIhdrs\fP is accepted as an alias for \fIheaders\fP to be
compatible with sendmail.
.IP "--keepbcc[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Enable or disable the preservation of the Bcc header. See the \fBkeepbcc\fP
command below.
.IP "-X, --logfile=[\fIfile\fP]"
Set or unset the log file. See the \fBlogfile\fP command below.
.IP "--syslog[=(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP|\fIfacility\fP)]"
Enable or disable syslog logging. See the \fBsyslog\fP command below.
.IP "-t, --read-recipients"
Read recipient addresses from the To, Cc, and Bcc headers of the mail in
addition to the recipients given on the command line.
If any Resent- headers are present, then the addresses from any Resent-To,
Resent-Cc, and Resent-Bcc headers in the first block of Resent- headers are
used instead.
.IP "--read-envelope-from"
Read the envelope from address from the From header of the mail.
.IP "--"
This marks the end of options. All following arguments will be treated as
recipient addresses, even if they start with a '-'.
.RE
.PP
The following options are accepted but ignored for sendmail compatibility:
.br
-B\fItype\fP, -bm, -F\fIname\fP, -G, -h\fIN\fP, -i, -L \fItag\fP, -m, -n, -O
\fIoption=value\fP, -o\fIx\fP \fIvalue\fP, -v
.SH USAGE
Normally, a system wide configuration file and/or a user configuration file
contain information about which SMTP server to use (and how to use it), but
almost all settings can also be configured on the command line.
.PP
Information about SMTP servers is organized in \fIaccounts\fP. Each account
describes one SMTP server: host name, authentication settings, TLS settings,
and so on.  Each configuration file can define multiple accounts.
.PP
In sendmail mode, an envelope-from address is necessary to send mail. This is
the mail address that will be presented to the SMTP server as the originator 
of the mail.
Envelope-from addresses can be generated automatically (when \fIauto_from\fP
is enabled) or set explicitly with the \fBfrom\fP command or \fB--from\fP 
option. When \fIauto_from\fP is enabled, an envelope-from address of the form
user@domain will be generated.  The local part will be set to \fBUSER\fP or,
if that fails, to \fBLOGNAME\fP or, if that fails, to the login name of the
current user.  The domain part can be set with the \fBmaildomain\fP command.
If the maildomain is empty, the envelope-from address will only consist of 
the user name and not have a domain part.
.PP
The user can choose which account to use in one of three ways:
.IP "--account=\fIid\fP"
Use the given account. Command line settings override configuration file 
settings.
.IP "--host=\fIhostname\fP
Use only the settings from the command line; do not use any configuration file
data.
.IP "--from=\fIaddress\fP or --read-envelope-from"
Choose the first account from the system or user configuration file that has
a matching envelope-from address as specified by a \fBfrom\fP command. This
works only when neither \fB--account\fP nor \fB--host\fP is used.
.PP
If none of the above options is used (or if no account has a matching
\fBfrom\fP command), then the account "default" is used.
.PP
Skip to the EXAMPLES section for a quick start.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
If it exists and is readable, a system wide configuration file
SYSCONFDIR/msmtprc will be loaded, where SYSCONFDIR depends on your platform.
Use \fB--version\fP to find out which directory is used.
.br
If it exists and is readable, a user configuration file will be loaded
(~/.msmtprc by default). Accounts defined in the user configuration file 
override accounts from the system configuration file.
The user configuration file must have no more permissions than user read/write.
Configuration data from either file can be changed by command line options.
.PP
A configuration file is a simple text file.  Empty lines and comment lines
(whose first non-blank character is '#') are ignored.
.br
Every other line must contain a command and may contain an argument to that
command.
.br
The argument may be enclosed in double quotes ("), for example if its first or
last character is a blank.
.br 
If the first character of a filename is the tilde (~), this tilde will be
replaced by HOME.
If a command accepts the argument \fIon\fP, it also accepts an empty argument
and treats that as if it was \fIon\fP.
.br
Commands form groups. Each group begins with the \fBaccount\fP command and 
defines the settings for one SMTP server.
.PP
Skip to the EXAMPLES section for a quick start.
.PP
Commands are as follows:
.IP "defaults"
Set defaults. The following configuration commands will set default values for
all following account definitions in the current configuration file.
.IP "account \fIname\fP [:\fIaccount\fP[,...]]"
Start a new account definition with the given name. The current default values
are filled in.
.br
If a colon and a list of previously defined accounts is given after the account
name, the new account, with the filled in default values, will inherit all
settings from the accounts in the list.
.IP "host \fIhostname\fP"
The SMTP server to send the mail to. 
The argument may be a host name or a network address.
Every account definition must contain this command.
.IP "port \fInumber\fP"
The port that the SMTP server listens on. 
The default port will be acquired from your operating system's service database:
for SMTP, the service is "smtp" (default port 25), unless TLS 
without STARTTLS is used, in which case it is "ssmtp" (465). For LMTP, it is 
"lmtp".
.IP "timeout (\fIoff\fP|\fIseconds\fP)"
Set or unset a network timeout, in seconds. The argument \fIoff\fP means that no
timeout will be set, which means that the operating system default will be used.
.br
For compatibility with older versions, \fBconnect_timeout\fP is accepted as an
alias for this command.
.IP "protocol (\fIsmtp\fP|\fIlmtp\fP)"
Set the protocol to use. Currently only SMTP and LMTP are supported. SMTP is
the default. See the \fBport\fP command above for default ports.
.IP "auto_from [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]
Enable or disable automatic envelope-from addresses. The default is off.
When enabled, an envelope-from address of the form user@domain will be
generated.  The local part will be set to \fBUSER\fP or, if that fails, to
\fBLOGNAME\fP or, if that fails, to the login name of the current user.  The
domain part can be set with the \fBmaildomain\fP command.  If the maildomain 
is empty, the envelope-from address will only consist of the user name and not
have a domain part. When auto_from is disabled, the envelope-from address must
be set explicitly.
.IP "from \fIenvelope_from\fP"
Set the envelope-from address. This address will only be used when 
\fIauto_from\fP is off.
.IP "maildomain [\fIdomain\fP]"
Set a domain part for the generation of an envelope-from address. This is only 
used when \fIauto_from\fP is on. The domain may be empty.
.IP "auth [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP|\fImethod\fP)]"
This command enables or disables SMTP authentication. You should not need to
set the method yourself; with the argument \fIon\fP, msmtp will choose the best
one available for you (see below).
.br
You probably need to set a username (with \fBuser\fP) and password (with 
\fBpassword\fP). 
If no password is set but one is needed during authentication, msmtp will try to
find it in ~/.netrc. If that fails, it will try to find it in SYSCONFDIR/netrc
(use \fB--version\fP to find out what SYSCONFDIR is on your platform). If that
fails, it will try to get it from a system specific keychain (if available). If
that fails but a controlling terminal is available, msmtp will prompt you for
it.
.br
Currently supported keychains are the GNOME keychain and the Mac OS X keychain.
See the EXAMPLES section below.
.br
Available methods are \fIplain\fP, \fIcram-md5\fP, \fIdigest-md5\fP,
\fIgssapi\fP, \fIexternal\fP, \fIlogin\fP, and \fIntlm\fP.  Note that one or 
more of these methods may be unavailable due to lack of support in the
underlying authentication library. Use the \fB--version\fP option to find out
which methods are supported.
.br
The \fIplain\fP and \fIlogin\fP methods send your authentication data in
cleartext over the net, and the \fIntlm\fP method may be vulnerable to attacks.
These methods should therefore only be used together with the \fBtls\fP command.
.br
If you don't choose the method yourself, msmtp chooses the best secure method
that the SMTP server supports. Secure means that your authentication data will
not be sent in cleartext over the net. For TLS encrypted connections, every
authentication method is secure in this sense. If TLS is not active, only
gssapi, digest-md5, and cram-md5 are secure in this sense.
.br
The \fIexternal\fP is special: the actual authentication happens outside of the
SMTP protocol, typically by sending a TLS client certificate (see the
\fBtls_cert_file\fP command). The \fIexternal\fP method merely confirms that
this authentication succeeded for the given user (or, if no user name is given,
confirms that authentication succeeded). This authentication method is not
chosen automatically; you have to request it manually.
.IP "user [\fIusername\fP]"
Set your user name for SMTP authentication. An empty argument unsets the user
name. Authentication must be activated with the \fBauth\fP command.
.IP "password [\fIsecret\fP]"
Set your password for SMTP authentication. An empty argument unsets the
password. Authentication must be activated with the \fBauth\fP command.
If no password is set but one is needed during authentication, msmtp will try to
find it in ~/.netrc. If that fails, it will try to find it in SYSCONFDIR/netrc
(use \fB--version\fP to find out what SYSCONFDIR is on your platform). If that
fails, it will try to get it from a system specific keychain (if available). If
that fails but a controlling terminal is available, msmtp will prompt you for
it.
.IP "ntlmdomain [\fIdomain\fP]"
Set a domain for the \fIntlm\fP authentication method. The default is to use no
domain (equivalent to an empty argument), but some servers seem to require one,
even if it is an arbitrary string.
.IP "tls [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
This command enables or disables TLS (also known as SSL) encrypted connections 
to the SMTP server. Not every server supports TLS.
.br
With TLS/SSL, the connection with the SMTP server will be protected against
eavesdroppers and man-in-the-middle attacks. To use TLS/SSL, it is required to 
either use the \fBtls_trust_file\fP command (highly recommended) or to disable 
\fBtls_certcheck\fP.
.IP "tls_starttls [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
By default, TLS encryption is activated using the STARTTLS SMTP command.  By
disabling this, TLS encryption is immediately started instead (this is known as
SMTP tunneled through TLS/SSL). The default port is set to 465 for this mode of
operation.
.br
For compatibility with older versions, \fBtls_nostarttls\fP is accepted as an
alias for \fBtls_starttls off\fP.
.IP "tls_trust_file [\fIfile\fP]"
This command activates strict server certificate verification.
.br
The filename must be the absolute path name of a file in PEM format containing
one or more certificates of trusted Certification Authorities (CAs).
.br
On Debian based systems, you can install the \fBca-certificates\fP package and
use the file \fB/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt\fP.
.IP "tls_crl_file [\fIfile\fP]"
This command sets or unsets a certificate revocation list (CRL) file for TLS,
to be used during strict server certificate verification as enabled by the
\fBtls_trust_file\fP command. This allows the verification procedure to detect
revoked certificates.
.IP "tls_key_file [\fIfile\fP]"
This command (together with the \fBtls_cert_file\fP command) enables msmtp to
send a client certificate to the SMTP server if requested.
The file must contain the private key of a certificate in PEM format.
An empty argument disables this feature.
.IP "tls_cert_file [\fIfile\fP]"
This command (together with the \fBtls_key_file\fP command) enables msmtp to
send a client certificate to the SMTP server if requested.
The file must contain a certificate in PEM format.
An empty argument disables this feature.
.IP "tls_certcheck [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
This command enables or disables checks for the server certificate.
.br
\fBWARNING\fP: When the checks are disabled, TLS/SSL sessions will be vulnerable
to man-in-the-middle attacks!
.br
For compatibility with older versions, \fBtls_nocertcheck\fP is accepted as an
alias for \fBtls_certcheck off\fP.
.IP "tls_force_sslv3 [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
Force TLS/SSL version SSLv3. This might be needed to use SSL with some old and 
broken servers. Do not use this unless you have to.
.IP "tls_min_dh_prime_bits [\fIbits\fP]"
Set or unset the minimum number of Diffie-Hellman (DH) prime bits that msmtp
will accept for TLS sessions.  The default is set by the TLS library and can be
selected by using an empty argument to this command.  Only lower the default
(for example to 512 bits) if there is no other way to make TLS work with the
remote server.
.IP "tls_priorities [\fIpriorities\fP]"
Set the priorities for TLS sessions.  The default is set by the TLS library and
can be selected by using an empty argument to this command.  Currently this 
command only works with sufficiently recent GnuTLS releases. See the GnuTLS
documentation of the \fBgnutls_priority_init\fP function for a description of 
the \fIpriorities\fP string.
.IP "dsn_notify (\fIoff\fP|\fIcondition\fP)"
This command sets the condition(s) under which the mail system should send DSN
(Delivery Status Notification) messages. The argument \fIoff\fP disables
explicit DSN requests, which means the mail system decides when to send DSN
messages. This is the default.
The \fIcondition\fP must be \fInever\fP, to never request notification, or a
comma separated list (no spaces!) of one or more of the following:
\fIfailure\fP, to request notification on transmission failure, \fIdelay\fP, to
be notified of message delays, \fIsuccess\fP, to be notified of successful
transmission. The SMTP server must support the DSN extension.
.IP "dsn_return (\fIoff\fP|\fIamount\fP)"
This command controls how much of a mail should be returned in DSN (Delivery
Status Notification) messages. The argument \fIoff\fP disables explicit DSN
requests, which means the mail system decides how much of a mail it returns in
DSN messages. This is the default.
The \fIamount\fP must be \fIheaders\fP, to just return the message headers, or
\fIfull\fP, to return the full mail.  The SMTP server must support the DSN
extension.
.IP "domain \fIargument\fP"
Use this command to set the argument of the SMTP EHLO (or LMTP LHLO) command. 
The default is \fIlocalhost\fP (stupid, but working). Possible choices are the
domain part of your mail address (provider.example for joe@provider.example) or
the fully qualified domain name of your host (if available).
.IP "keepbcc [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP)]"
This command controls whether to remove or keep the Bcc header when sending a 
mail. The default is to remove it.
.IP "logfile [\fIfile\fP]"
An empty argument disables logging (this is the default).
.br
When logging is enabled by choosing a log file, msmtp will append one line to
the log file for each mail it tries to send via the account that this log file
was chosen for.
.br 
The line will include the following information: date and time, host name of the
SMTP server, whether TLS was used, whether authentication was used,
authentication user name (only if authentication is used), envelope-from
address, recipient addresses, size of the mail as transferred to the server
(only if the delivery succeeded), SMTP status code and SMTP error message (only
in case of failure and only if available), error message (only in case of
failure and only if available), exit code (from sysexits.h; EX_OK indicates
success).
.br
If the filename is a dash (-), msmtp prints the log line to the standard output.
.IP "syslog [(\fIon\fP|\fIoff\fP|\fIfacility\fP)]"
Enable or disable syslog logging. The facility can be one of LOG_USER, LOG_MAIL,
LOG_LOCAL0, ..., LOG_LOCAL7. The default is LOG_USER.
.br
Each time msmtp tries to send a mail via the account that contains this syslog 
command, it will log one entry to the syslog service with the chosen facility.
.br 
The line will include the following information: host name of the SMTP server,
whether TLS was used, whether authentication was used, envelope-from address,
recipient addresses, size of the mail as transferred to the server (only if the
delivery succeeded), SMTP status code and SMTP error message (only in case of
failure and only if available), error message (only in case of failure and only
if available), exit code (from sysexits.h; EX_OK indicates success).
.SH EXAMPLES
.br
.B Configuration file
.PP
# Set default values for all following accounts.
.br
defaults
.br
tls on
.br
tls_trust_file /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
.br
logfile ~/.msmtp.log
.br

.br
# A freemail service
.br
account freemail
.br
host smtp.freemail.example
.br
from joe_smith@freemail.example
.br
auth on
.br
user joe.smith
.br
password secret
.br

.br
# A second mail address at the same freemail service
.br
account freemail2 : freemail
.br
from joey@freemail.example
.br

.br
# The SMTP server of the provider.
.br
account provider
.br
host mail.provider.example
.br
from smithjoe@provider.example
.br
auth on
.br
user 123456789
.br
password my_password
.br

.br
# Set a default account
.br
account default : provider
.br

.PP
.B Manually finding the right CA certificate for \fBtls_trust_file\fP
.PP
The following example works as of 2007-04-18.
.br
For the Gmail SMTP server, you first issue the following command:
.br
.B msmtp --serverinfo --host=smtp.gmail.com --tls=on --port=587
.B   --tls-certcheck=off
.br
The option \fI--port=587\fP is specific to Gmail and should not be used with
other servers. The option \fI--tls-certcheck=off\fP allows msmtp to accept any
certificate, so that it can print some information about it.
.br
According to the output of this command, the common name of the server
certificate issuer is "Thawte Premium Server CA". This means that you have to
trust the Thawte CA to use full TLS security. You can download the Thawte CA 
certificate bundle from http://thawte.com/roots. You get a ZIP file with
different certificates. The one you need for the \fBtls_trust_file\fP command is
\fIThawte Server Roots/ThawtePremiumServerCA_b64.txt\fP.
.br
The following command should now succeed:
.br
.B msmtp --serverinfo --host=smtp.gmail.com --tls=on --port=587 
.B   --tls-trust-file="Thawte Server Roots/ThawtePremiumServerCA_b64.txt"

.PP
.B Using msmtp with Mutt
.PP
Create a configuration file for msmtp and add the following lines to your 
Mutt configuration file:
.br
.B set sendmail="/path/to/msmtp"
.br
.B set use_from=yes
.br
.B set realname="Your Name"
.br
.B set from=you@example.com
.br
.B set envelope_from=yes
.br
The envelope_from=yes option lets Mutt use the 
.BR -f 
option of msmtp. Therefore msmtp chooses the first account that matches 
the from address you@example.com.
.br
Alternatively, you can use the
.BR -a
option:
.br
.B set sendmail="/path/to/msmtp -a my-account"
.br
Or set everything from the command line:
.br
.B set sendmail="/path/to/msmtp --host=mailhub -f me@example.com --tls"
.PP
If you have multiple mail accounts in your msmtp configuration file
and let Mutt use the
.BR -f
option to choose the right one, you can easily switch accounts in Mutt with
the following Mutt configuration lines:
.br
.B macro generic\ "<esc>1"\ ":set from=you@example.com"
.br
.B macro generic\ "<esc>2"\ ":set from=you@your-employer.example"
.br
.B macro generic\ "<esc>3"\ ":set from=you@some-other-provider.example"

.PP
.B Using msmtp with mail
.PP
Define a default account, and put the following in your ~/.mailrc:
.br
.B set sendmail="/path/to/msmtp"

.PP
.B Using the Mac OS X Keychain
.PP
A Mac OS X user can store a password in a keychain item using the Keychain
Access GUI application. The \fIaccount name\fP is simply the value of the
msmtp \fBuser\fP argument. However, the \fIkeychain item name\fP is 
\fBsmtp://<hostname>\fP where \fB<hostname>\fP matches the msmtp \fBhost\fP
argument. Using \fBsmtp://\fP is needed so that the item is created of kind
\fIinternet password\fP.  For example, selecting \fIFile->Get Info\fP on a
keychain item that corresponds to \fBhost smtp.freemail.example\fP and
\fBuser joe.smith\fP will show:
.br
Name: smtp.freemail.example
.br
Kind: Internet password
.br
Account: joe.smith
.br
Where: smtp://smtp.freemail.example
.SH FILES
.IP "SYSCONFDIR/msmtprc"
System configuration file. Use
.B --version
to find out what SYSCONFDIR is on your platform.
.IP "~/.msmtprc"
User configuration file.
.IP "~/.netrc and SYSCONFDIR/netrc"
The netrc file contains login information. If a password is not found in the
configuration file, msmtp will search it in ~/.netrc and SYSCONFDIR/netrc before
prompting the user for it. The syntax of netrc files is described in 
.BR netrc (5)
or 
.BR ftp (1).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "USER, LOGNAME"
These variables override the user's login name when constructing an 
envelope-from address. LOGNAME is only used if USER is unset.
.IP "TMPDIR"
Directory to create temporary files in. If this is unset, a system specific
default directory is used.
.br
A temporary file is only created when the
.BR -t/--read-recipients
or
.BR --read-envelope-from
option is used. The file is then used to buffer the headers of the mail (but not
the body, so the file won't get very large).
.IP "EMAIL, SMTPSERVER"
These environment variables are used only if neither \fB--host\fP nor
\fB--account\fP is used and there is no default account defined in the
configuration files. In this case, the host name is taken from SMTPSERVER, and
the envelope from address is taken from EMAIL, unless overridden by
\fB--from\fP or \fB--read-envelope-from\fP. Currently SMTPSERVER must contain a
plain host name (no URL), and EMAIL must contain a plain address (no names or
additional information).
.SH AUTHORS
msmtp was written by Martin Lambers <marlam@marlam.de>.
.br
Other authors are listed in the AUTHORS file in the source distribution.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mutt (1), 
.BR mail (1),
.BR sendmail (8), 
.BR netrc (5)
or
.BR ftp (1)
